In this mini-project, I'm trying to code a binary classifier from scratch, using only numpy.

To execute code: python main.py
Results are printed in the terminal + images in images/


Structure

project/
    main.py
    src/
    images/
    README.md
    requirements.txt
    .gitignore


Training data: points in the plane X
- 200 randomly distributed with gaussian distribution around (-2, -2), with label y=0
- 200 randomly distributed with gaussian distribution around (2, 2), with label y=1


1ST APPROACH: logistic regression

Initial parameters: w = (0, 0) and b = 0
Initial accuracy: 0.5
Score : z = w.x + b
Prediction: yhat = sigmoid(z)

Loss function used: binary cross-entropy, the mean value of -y * log(yhat) - (1 - y) * log(1 - yhat)


Test on new points.


LIMIT: logistic regression does not work with non-linearly separable classes

New training data:
- gaussian distribution centered around 0
- random points around 0 at a distance within an interval
Both distributions are clearly separated.

Non_linearly separable classes are generated by gen_non_lin_sep_train and can be seen in non_lin_sep_data.png.
prediction.png shows that logistic regression cannot do a correct inference.
This justifies the need of a neural network, which is able to have non-linear decision boundaries.


2ND APPROACH: neural network

Initial parameters: random weights (not zero otherwise the network cannot learn), bias at zero.
Initial accuracy of 0.5 and after a few hundred epochs, it's over 90%, and about 90% on the test set.
Same loss function
non_lin_sep_prediction.png shows that the neural network can learn non-linear boundaries.

Structure of the network: 1 hidden layer of hidden_size neurons (here 8) with activation tanh, and 1 output layer of 1 neuron with activation sigmoid.
lr = 0.1